# Highlights
1. Dijkstra's Notes on Structured Programming

# Things Done Today
1. Revising things done yesterday.
2. Cursory glance at Dijkstra's Notes on Structured Programming.

# Suggestions

# Journal
### 9:23 PM
Haven't done anything so far, will start now. Let's just revise the things that we've done yesterday for 30 minutes. Let's also include the insight that we learnt yesterday - plan multiple events together and decide to do them.

### 9:58 PM
Just tried to code Merge Sort up again from scratch and without memory. First ran into stack-overflow. Previous stack overflow was due to incorrect base-case condition, this time was due to function calls never reaching base case. Is it necessary to learn these things? Or can I reason about the conditions?

### 10:10 PM
Made same mistake again. Started working without setting time. Work with time and in time bursts.

### 10:28 PM
This merge sort is confusing. You can't seem to reason about the program, and you're stuck in a mental loop. Try to solve this.

### 10:45 PM
One mistake came out. You assumed that the initial call was n, but sorted a[0:n-1], but the initial call was mergesort(a, 0, n-1) and it sorted a[0:n-1]. Think of each function in terms of inputs and outputs. But this makes you think that you're not exactly sure about the reasoning of the programs. You should explore verifying procedures. Let's go through some of Dijkstra's readings to get a glance of what that might look like. You primarily have to look at reasoning about programs as well as scrutinizing your entire problem solving process.

### 11:16 PM
Dijkstra's Notes on Structured Programming seem to be quite interesting and useful. On a first glance they seem similar to the things touched upon in Program Verification, but Dijkstra seems like a more appealing figure, so I'll go with his Notes as opposed to Science of Programming by Jim Sasaki.

The reason why Program Verification is being looked into is because you're utterly confused about the i's and the j's and you're just guessing about the is the correct implementation of something. There's no clear implementation procedure. Dijkstra's reading will massively help in the implementation side of things.
