# Highlights
1. Experimenting with contributing factors for problem solving process.

# Things Done Today
1. Notes on Structured Programming by Dijkstra
2. Kolb's on Problem Solving Process

# Suggestions
1. Keep track of 1% gains everyday

# Journal
### 9:16 PM
Went through Notes on Structured Programming by Dijkstra. Along with that attempted another codeforces problem. Observed some issues in problem solving process - 
1. When confronted with a subproblem, mind immediately tries to come up with an ambiguous picture.
2. When mind gets distracted, it mindlessly starts drawing something.
3. Mind goes blank when there isn't a clear approach.

You should do a Kolb's on this and write your experiment and abstraction here.

### 10:04 PM
Just finished Kolb's. Key takeaways are - 
1. Focus on a single thing at a time when solving a problem.
2. There should be a proper problem solving process that you follow in order to avoid overwhelm. It should be step by step and should bring you as close as possible to solving the problem
3. When solving a sub-problem, try to keep track of everything that is needed in order to solve the current sub-problem. Try to identify the contributing factors for each subproblem.

### 10:23 PM
Attempted to solve the problem using a few of the techniques above. The third advice is really helpful and useful. That's primarily what is being used. With respect to the problem solving process, that doesn't seem to contribute that much to the progress, but more experimentation has to be done.

### 10:38 PM
Yeah the main problem is getting distracted and losing line of thought. You should use writing as an aid until you're comfortable.
