# Highlights

# Things Done Today
1. Counting Sort
2. Notes on Structured Programming
    1. On our inability to do much
    2. Reliability of mechanisms
    3. Mental Aids

# Suggestions

# Journal
### 10:00 AM
Morning. Have understood and coded up Counting Sort and also had a brief session on Notes on Structured Programming.

### 10:12 AM
With regards to Counting Sort, there was a new technique that was quite interesting. Frequency arrays and prefix sums I'm already familiar with, but their use in the way they were used was interesting. In order to sort, each element needs to go in it's correct position, and prefix summed frequency arrays (in order) are a nice method to do that. You should try to come up with some problems which use both prefix summed frequency arrays. Try to figure out some attributes of such arrays. With regards to Notes of Structured Programming, the primary tools that Dijkstra suggests are - 
1. Enumeration
2. Mathematical Induction
3. Abstraction

Enumeration involves reasoning about properties step by step through successive instructions and analyzing different cases if conditional statements are encountered. Mathematical induction is fairly straightforward. Abstraction is the tricky one. In abstraction you have to abstract out the functionality of a certain piece of code. 

This gives way to an interesting thought. The loop invariant that is chosen attempts to abstract out the functionality of the loop as opposed to scrutinizing the details of it. The proof of the loop invariant involves scrutinizing the details in order to abstract out the useful functionality which we actually care about. Whenever you write a program, you should have a proper specification.

