# Journal
### 7:26 PM
I'm facing a few issues that need to be addressed - 
1. There's no clear workflow that I currently have. Everything is haphazard. There's no clear process that is being followed right now. The only thing I know is that I'm following CP4 as my primary resource, but how I'm doing it is uncertain.
2. There's no atomicity of study material. I'm not doing topic-wise study yet, and I keep going into deep aspects of a single topic. There's nothing wrong with that, but there should be some primary structure.
3. I don't have a list of things that I've done in a particular day, so that's troublesome. That should be there.

In order to solve these issues and keep a track of daily progress, this journal has been initiated. I'll stick to this particular format of naming `day-of-month_month_year`.

With regards to the first issue, Each type of problem in CP4 can be a topic in itself and I can try to study CP4 topicwise. This should work.

There's also another issue. Sometimes you don't end up doing an entire topic, then it doesn't make sense to do SIR the next day. What to do about that?

Also your current method of SIR is bound to fail because you're not able to see what all needs to be done. Either you build a habit of looking at each and every task in Amazing Marvin to fix this, or you set a habit of revising topics on weekends. Weekends seems like the better issue.

### 8:36 PM
In order to understand Inversion Index, merge sort needs to be understood properly. I'll try to understand merge sort from CLRS along with loop invariants and all the other formalisms. This is necessary because it's not clear why Merge sort detects inversions. CP4 and GeeksForGeeks simply give an algorithm, but they don't give proof. But before I go to learn merge sort, I should try to prove it myself. Inversion has a fixed definition, and I understand merge sort intuitively, so I just might be able to come up with a proof.

### 8:54 PM
I think I have a preliminary proof. It goes like this - 
1. Initiation. In the base case of merge sort, there will be two cases. Either there is a single element in the left array, or there is a single element in the left array and a single element in the right array. The former case isn't too hard, so we'll primarily consider the latter case. In the latter case, we already have sorted left and right arrays. If the right element is smaller (assuming merge sort is sorting ascending), count the inversion, otherwise don't count.
2. Maintainence. Assume that so far we've couted all the inversions correctly. Let us assume that right now we have a left array and right array with some number of elements. During the merge step (we need to do induction here as well), either the top element of the right array is smaller or the left array is smaller. If right array is smaller, that means that this element has to go all the way to the left of the current left indesx. Thus we add the current size of left array to inversion count.
3. Termination. Finally, merge sort terminates and so far all the inversions that have been counted are correct.

I'm not sure whether this proof is correct or not, and I should look at official solutions. I should also look at the correctness of merge sort.

### 9:39 PM
I'm now looking at the correctness of Merge sort. I should attempt to code the Merge procedure of Merge sort because I understand what it does.

# Issues
1. `[PENDING]` No clear workflow.
2. `[PENDING]` No atomicity of study material. This causes issues in SIR.
3. `[SOLVED]` No track of what all has been done on a particular day.
4. `[SOLVED]` Entire topic not done, to SIR or not to SIR?
    - If there's nothing to SIR, then what's the point?
5. `[SOLVED]` Don't know what topics to study based on SIR on a particular day.
    - For this, just use Amazing Marvin.

# Things Done Today
1. Count number of inversions using Merge Sort (Only Theory and Proof)
2. 

# Suggestions
1. Create a CP journal / blog which you add daily entries to.