# Highlights
1. Insertion Sort can be done inplace using Bubble Sort swaps.
2. Bubble Sort and Selection Sort are essentially the same (same loop invariant).
3. (inplace) Insertion Sort and Bubble Sort need the same number of swaps (same number of inversions)

# Things Done Today
1. Recurrence Relations, Recursion Tree
2. Merge Sort Time Complexity Analysis
3. Code up Merge Sort.
4. Merge Sort Correctness
5. Divide and Conquer

# Suggestions
1. Merge your entire CP folder into this folder.

# Journal
### 5:16 AM
You were working on understanding the running complexity and correctness for Merge sort. You've also coded up the merge sort procedure, so you should probably add that your previous entry. Think about what all you want to do today. First there's this Inversion Index problem. You're also using this particular problem to learn recursive algorithm analysis. Here's a rough idea of what all you will do today.
1. ~~Read and understand the Merge Sort chapter of CLRS (Chapter 2.3)~~
2. ~~Solve the Inversion problems of CLRS~~
3. ~~Code up entire Merge Sort~~
4. ~~Code up the solution to Inversion Index~~
5. Find and prove a relationship between the minimum number of bubble sort swaps to sort an array and the number of inversions in an array.
6. ~~Try to understand the unsortedness of an array with regards to Insertion Sort, Bubble Sort in terms of number of inversions of the array.~~
7. ~~How are inversions relate to the running time of the algorithm?~~

Let's begin with the first step.

### 5:49 AM
Alright, you're done with Reading and understanding the Merge Sort chapter. The primary things that you understood from this chapter are Divide and Conquer method, Recurrence Relations and Merge Sort. Let's fully code up Merge Sort once, and then we'll move on.

### 6:06 AM
I've fully coded up Merge sort and there are interesting insights. In the merge procedure, `a[p:q-1]` was the left array and `a[q:r]` was the right array. This was necessary to remember while coding up the mergesort procedure because the left and right recursion in the mergesort procedure needed to correspond to the left and right arrays. This led to a bit of confusion, but it's okay now. 

Another issue came up. I initially got an stack overflow in my implementation. I didn't know what it might've have been because of, but I later realized that the stack overflow was because an infinite recursion (base case was never being reached). This means that if I'm coding up a recursive algorithm and there's a stack overflow, the first thing that I should check is the base case (can there be anything else causing a stackoverflow?) This also makes me want to look at the debugging module of Missing Semester. That might be useful for figuring out what C++ errors mean. I'll quickly write a test script for checking whether my merge sort is correct or not, and then proceed.

### 6:20 AM
Test script for merge sort is written and it works. Let's try to think about what all we can learn about implementation from this. I think that coding up the Merge routine from time to time is a useful endeavor. I'm listing that in my SIR sheet. 

I think I might look at the GDB Missing Semester thing now for a little bit and see if there's something useful there.

### 6:28 AM
Just had a glance at Missing Semester's lecture on debugging. It seems very interesting and generally useful, but not relevant to CP.

With regards to doing SIR on the material that I'm doing today, maybe what I can do is just set a weekly and daily revision event. And in that event I look at the things that I did yesterday.

### 6:41 AM
Alright. Done with the first thing of the day. Now will solve Inversion Problems.

### 6:56 AM
I found something interesting! Insertion Sort can be done using Bubble Sort swaps. During Insertion sort, when a key is being inserted into a pre-sorted array, instead of using O(1) memory, this can be done inplace.

### 7:07 AM
Just coded it up, and it works well! I tested it on the same mergesort dataset and it passes. I also think it'd be nice if I have a section in this journal which lists out highlights of the day. That'll be pretty useful and fun.

Something slightly annoying is that I forgot the functioning of Insertion Sort again. I should keep a track of Insertion sort and test myself on it. Essentially, Insertion sort involves inserting an element in the right position in a sorted array. Selection sort involves finding the minimum / maximum of an array, storing that in the right position and then doing the same for a subarray of size one less than original. Bubble sort involves the same idea as selection sort, but it swaps the minimum / maximum in the right position.

Insertion Sort - Insert key in right position
Selection Sort - Find minimum and place to left
Bubble Sort - Find minimum and swap to left

The interesting thing is that Bubble Sort and Selection Sort are essentially the same, and Bubble Sort and Insertion Sort use a similar swapping technique (if Insertion Sort is done inplace).

### 7:22 AM
Now we'll try to figure out the relationship between inversions and Insertion sort. This is interesting. It seems like each inversion adds an addition swap to Insertion Sort. How to prove this?

### 8:17 AM
I've successfully proven the above. After that I was looking at how merge sort detects the number of inversions. Finally, I'm implementing methods of inversion detection and adding them to my template. I had another interesting idea. Maybe I can make this my primary competitive programming library / template along with all the other things that I require. This repository can be my one-shop-stop. I can upload sample algorithms along with tests. Or I can upload my entire cp repository. I think I should one thing at a time though. Shouldn't do too much. I'll add a folder called algorithms and data structures.

### 8:30 AM
Added the folder, now I'll continue doing what I was doing. Essentially, I was just checking whether bubble sort and insertion sort have the same number of swaps or not. I also wanted to check whether merge sort inversion detection worked or not.

### 8:53 AM
Inversion detection is working. There were a few bugs but they're fixed now. The interesting bug was that I used a global variable, but forgot to reinitialize it. That's something to keep in mind and something that I'm adding to my cp template.

### 9:14 AM
Bubble Sort, Insertion Sort and Merge Sort have been added to my cp template. I might also add them to this folder. I think the idea is to slowly shift everything to this particular folder. Also, I've more or less done whatever I planned with regards to today, so that's pretty good! I'll move on to the next topic after creating a mind map of everything that's related to Inversions. There's another problem though. How do I prove the minimality of inversions? That's by definition of inversion. If an inversion exists, then the array is unsorted.